---
authors:
  - name: Sarah Dawson
    email: 
    link: 
    avatar: ../static/SarahDawson_Icon.png
description: 
title: Parent Edumate and App Setup
icon: 
layout: default
order: 0
visibility: public
---
# Parent/Carer Edumate Portal & Parent Mobile App Setup

Parent Carers are able to access the Edumate Portal once an inital setup has occurred.  This works in conjunction with the Parent Mobile App (for carers only).  The Carer Portal needs to be setup in Edumate and functional in order for a carer to be able to also login and use the Parent Mobile App.

***To maintain portals for carers, the following needs to take place, and it is recommended that this process is completed as "Enrolment Contracts" are received by the College.***

## Carer/Parent Portal

Carer Portal parents can ONLY be the carers who are eligible to receive 'academic reports' and therefore on the relationship tab of the student they have a "Report Flag" checked on.  Please also be sensitive to court orders etc, and ensure that carer/parent portal access is NOT enabled to any carer who should not be privy to a student's daily life information, as recorded by the College ie attendance, timetables, etc.
- **Group Tab (of carer profile in Edumate)**
	+ Tick on 'User" check box at top of screen.
	+ Select "_Portal Parent" group on available groups on left hand side and use 'add' in middle of screen for the group to appear on the right hand side.
+ Press BIG save, then hit refresh, or click on an alternative tab, to cause a screen refresh.
- **Access Tab (of carer profile in Edumate)**
	+ Tick on ALL four checkboxes:
		* Active Account
		* Password does not expire
		* Force password change
		* Do not use LDAP
	+ Keep the automatically generated username (Edumate will ensure that the username is unique. 
	+ In the TWO password fields, you will need to update this with the CARER NUMBER from the "GENERAL TAB" of Edumate.
	+ BIG Save.

## Login Information for Carers

In your Edumate is a letter that can be scheduled to send on the day that a student commences at the College (or day before or after if your College wishes), in order for this to auto generate without staff needing to remember, a College staff member will need to set up a schedule.  The benefit of a schedule, is that no staff member will need to remember to generate the next steps for Carers.  The login information for the Carer will automatically send, when a child starts, and when there is information in the portal to access.

In Edumate navigate to:
- *Enrolment Reports > Correspondence > Portal > Edumate Portal & EduApp (new carers).*
	+ Generates email to carers of new students based on their student's start date.  This report will not generate any carers who already have existing students at the College, as it is assumed that they are already active users of the portal.
- Click on 'Schedule' on the report screen. 
- Click on 'Add Schedule'. 
- Select 'Relative Date'. 
- Leave as 'As at Date' to generate on the day a student starts at the College (prior to that there is nothing really for a carer to see).
- Click on Next.
- Select "Contact" as report is designed to go to a Carer specifically.
- Change From name and email as per College processes.
- Subject example "Parent Portal and Parent Mobile App Information for School Name".
- Body example "Welcome to "College Name", please see attached pdf for information about gaining access to student information via the College's parent portal and parent mobile app."
- Click on Next.
- Description - is something meaningful to you ie 'Parent Portal Login for new carers on day student starts'.
- Start on - Select a time first ie 3pm and then click on date (get the letter to send at the conclusion of the day).
- End On - Never.
- Repeats - Daily.
- Repeat every - 1 days.
- Submit.

<iframe width="700" height="600" frameborder="0" src="https://ccmschools.sharepoint.com/:b:/r/sites/CorporateSystems/Shared%20Documents/3747454_8515.pdf?csf=1&web=1&e=6LlTuS&amp;action=embedview&amp;wdAr=1.7777777777777777"></iframe>

If at any time a Carer asks for their login details, or the letter ([example letter](https://ccmschools.sharepoint.com/:b:/r/sites/CorporateSystems/Shared%20Documents/3747454_8515.pdf?csf=1&web=1&e=6LlTuS)) needs to be re-generated, this can be done by using the 'Carer Number' version of the report, to generate the letter on a one off basis:
- *Enrolment Reports > Correspondence > Edumate Portal & EduApp (New Carers)*

In essence, this letter is exactly the same as the letter sample above, just generated by a carer number, rather than a student's start date.

## Housekeeping of Carer Portals

So, what happens, if all this is new to you, and you aren't sure whether all you carers have active accounts for Portal access?  Well, there is a report that will list for you all the carers who do not currently have active accounts.  Please bear in mind though, that some of these carers will not need access due to family situations and be mindful of that.
- *Enrolment Reports > Module Reports > Portal > 5. Parents without Active Accounts*

If you have a lot of 'inactive' parent accounts and need assistance in doing a 'bulk import' please get in contact with edumate-support@ccmschools.edu.au.